All right, good afternoon everyone.
I'm Doug Davidson and I'd
like to welcome you all to the
Cocoa Tiger Makeover session.
Now,
one of the great things about Cocoa is
that it makes it really easy for you
to start developing your application
and get it up and running quickly.
But we all know that there's a
big difference between an ordinary
application and an outstanding one.
And what makes that difference
is attention to detail.
So, what we want to do this afternoon is
to show you how Cocoa makes it easy
to add the details that will make
your application really stand out,
especially with all the great new
features that we have in Tiger.
So for this purpose,
we have a simple basic application
that we are going to transform.
It is a simple personal
finance application,
the sort of thing you might use
to keep track of your checkbook.
It's a document-based application.
Each document has a single window
with a table view in it that
contains a list of transactions.
You know, money coming in,
money going out, money going out,
money going out, money going out.
There's another view below that that
shows the details of each transaction.
It's all done with bindings,
so it's really simple.
And it can read and write
its own custom file format.
So let's take a look at it.
Can we go over to demo one, please?
So here's our application.
We call it iSpend.
And I have some sample
transactions loaded.
You can see they have a date, an amount,
a description, optional category,
and account type.
And we can add transactions,
we can delete transactions,
we can open up the detail
view down below that shows the
details of each transaction.
We can modify them.
So the application works.
But there's a lot we'd
like to do with it.
We'd like to spiff up
this user interface.
We'd like to be able to copy and
paste and drag and drop these
transactions all over the place.
And we'd like to take advantage
of some of the great new
Tiger features like Spotlight.
That's what we're going
to show you today.
So let's start the makeover.
Go back to the slides.
We're going to do this in three parts.
I'll be talking about the first part,
which is all about dealing
with the pasteboard.
What we're going to do to this
application is add support for copy
and paste and for drag and drop and
for services from the services menu.
So I'm going to start with copy
and paste because that's the
foundation of the rest of this.
And I'm going to describe a particular
means of dealing with the pasteboard
here that I like to think of as the
right way to handle the pasteboard.
Why do I call it that?
Because it's going to make all
the rest of this really easy.
And in this way of doing things,
everything is going to have three steps.
So, for example,
for writing to the pasteboard,
we'll have step one.
On whatever object is going to
be writing to the pasteboard,
we'll define a method that describes
the list of types that we're
willing to write to the pasteboard.
Just returns an array of them.
Okay?
Step two.
is a fairly generic method,
not really specific to this application,
I'll show you the
implementation in a minute,
that takes a pasteboard and a list
of types and writes those types to
the pasteboard using step three,
The method that really does the work,
which takes a pasteboard and a type
and writes that type to the pasteboard.
And this is the method that has the
custom code that knows about the format
of each type you're going to write
to the pasteboard and does that work.
Reading from the
Pasteboard is very similar.
Step one:
we're going to define a method that
describes a list of types that we're
willing to read from the Pasteboard.
It returns an array of those.
Step 2 is another fairly generic method
that I'll show you in a minute that
takes a pasteboard and reads from it.
It doesn't need to take a list of
types because the pasteboard itself
knows the types that it contains.
Step three, again,
is a method that really does the work,
that takes a pasteboard and a type and
reads that type from the pasteboard.
And this is the method that has a
custom code that knows about each format
that you read from the pasteboard.
Okay,
so let's take a look at that in code.
If we could go over to demo one.
Bring up Xcode.
Now, in this particular application,
we've decided that the document is
going to be handling the copy and
paste because it's the document
here that knows about the formats.
I have added a category to my document
class for handling the pasteboard.
Here is the first method I told you
about that describes the types we are
willing to write to the pasteboard.
In this case, we have, first of all,
a custom pasteboard type that we
are going to use for copy and paste
within this particular application.
And then we also want to be able
eventually to support promise drags.
That is where we drag things
to the finder or the desktop,
say, and produce a file there if the
receiving application wants it.
And to do that,
we have to write out two types,
a special files promise pasteboard
type and a file names pasteboard type.
And we're also going
to write out rich text,
RTF pasteboard type, and plain text,
string pasteboard type.
That's the first method.
The second one is the fairly generic
one I told you about that takes a
pasteboard and an array of types.
And all this method does is
it goes through those types
and picks out the ones that we
are actually willing to write.
And then it declares those types
on the pasteboard and then just
goes through them one by one and
writes them to the pasteboard
using this third detail method.
And so this is the one
that does the work.
It has code for each type
that we're willing to write.
So for example, for our custom type,
we are just going to write the
transactions out as archived data.
Our application knows how
to read and write that.
For the file's promise pasteboard type,
the way that works is that
to support promise drags,
for that we write out the extension
of the file type and the similar types
that we are willing to write out.
And then the file name's pasteboard type,
well,
We don't want to do that right away.
We don't have a file handy.
We're only going to do that if
the receiver actually wants it.
So we'll just say yes
and do that later on,
lazily.
RichText, I'm not going to show
you this right here,
but you can look at it
in your sample code.
This is somewhat interesting.
We will write out a list of transactions
to RichText using the new text table
support in Tiger to write out a list
of transactions as a table in RTF.
And for plain text,
there is also another method that will
write it out as tab separated values.
Pretty simple.
There's one more method that
we need for our promise drags.
If we are actually called
on to write out a file,
we need to have a method
that writes out a file.
And this is pretty simple.
It just uses the NSDocument support.
We already know how to write
out our custom file format,
so this one calls on that to do it.
So, once we have all that,
then our copy method is just a one-liner.
That is,
it writes to the general pasteboard all
the types that we're willing to write.
All right, then let's go to the
reading from the pasteboard.
Here's the first method I told
you about that declares the
types we're willing to read.
In this case,
our custom type will read in file names.
We don't need the file promise type.
Rich text and plain text.
and the generic method to
read from the pasteboard,
which again is pretty simple.
All it does is go through all the
types that we are willing to read.
For each one, it checks to see if
it's on the pasteboard.
If it is,
it tries to read it and stops when
the first success is encountered.
And then here again is the
method that does all the work.
For our custom document type,
we read it in as archive data.
File name is pasteboard type.
We read it in as a file,
so we know how to read files.
And for rich text,
we have a method that parses
those tables that we wrote out,
or if there is no table present,
it falls back to the plain text parsing,
which will parse tab-separated
values or comma-separated
values or similar formats.
So let's try it out.
Okay, run it.
And...
Bring up the data.
Let's see if we can copy something.
And paste.
That worked.
That's our custom type
within the application.
Or we can try it as text.
There's rich text.
There's our table.
[Transcript missing]
The next thing I'd like to talk about,
now that we've got copy and
paste as our foundation,
we can move on to other things,
drag and drop and services.
The main data view in this
application is a table view.
So we're going to make that
table view serve as a dragging
source and dragging destination.
Now in Tiger,
there are some new methods for the
data source for the table view that
make drag and drop support really easy.
So we're going to use them.
Again, three steps to act as
a drag and drop source.
Step 1: At initialization,
we need to register a
drag operation mask,
it's called,
that specifies the kind of drag
operations that we're willing to support.
Step 2: At the start of a drag,
we'll be called on to provide
the contents of the pasteboard.
But we already know how to do
that because we have our method
that writes to the pasteboard.
And step three,
if the drag ends up being a promise drag,
say to the finder,
then the recipient will tell us
where it wants the files written out.
And so there's a method on the data
source that will be called that
will specify the location where
the file should be written out.
And that just calls the method
I showed you just now that writes
out a file to a specific location.
To serve as a drag-and-drop destination,
step one, at initialization time,
we need to register the types that
we're willing to accept in a drag.
But that's just our
readable pasteboard types,
so we already know that.
Step two, as a drag comes in as
dragged over our table view,
we will be called
repeatedly to validate it.
And I'll show you the
implementation of that in a minute.
And step three, if the drag is ultimately
dropped on our table view,
we'll be called on to accept
it and to write that data in.
But that just calls on the
method that we've shown earlier
to read from a pasteboard.
Then we come to services.
Services are a really
neat feature in Mac OS X,
so we should support them as much
as possible because they're really
useful and it's really easy to do.
We wanna be able to use services
from within our application.
So for that, step one, at initialization,
we need to register all the types
that we're willing to hand off to
a service or back from a service.
But we already know those.
those are our readable and
writable pasteboard types.
Step 2:
When the service menu is brought up,
we need to validate
specific entries in it.
I'm not going to show you that method,
but it's really simple.
It's like other menu validation code.
And step three, there is no step three,
or rather, we already did it.
Because step three is just to implement
those methods that I showed you before,
that writes types to the pasteboard
or reads types from the pasteboard.
That's it.
But we also want to make this
application provide some services.
And I've written two simple services
for this application to provide.
For providing services, step one,
we need to advertise them by adding
a services entry to our infop list.
And this entry specifies all sorts
of information about the service,
like what the menu name is and so forth.
But one important thing I want
to note is that it gives a name,
in this case,
import data that's going to be used
as part of the method that will be
invoked if the service is actually used.
Step 2 is we need to register
some object in our application
to act as a service provider.
Step 3: Implement the method that will be
invoked when the service is used.
For the import data service,
the full signature method looks
like 'import data with user data and
error'. This is a very simple service,
so the implementation is very simple.
This service just copies
data into our application,
into the frontmost document,
and so it just uses the
method that we showed before
to read from the pasteboard.
So,
let's take a look at this again in code.
Now, you remember that I said that
these drag and drop methods are
going to be implemented on the
data source for our table view.
In this case,
that's our array controller.
So I have a category on our
array controller subclass.
This is all for drag and drop.
And here you see the initialization.
[Transcript missing]
For acting as a source,
we register the drag operation mask.
In this particular application,
we have chosen to regard the
transactions as being ordered by
sorting and not by manual rearrangement.
So the drag and drop operation
we're going to support is
always going to be a copy.
So the mask we use is the or of copy
operation or the generic operation,
which just means whatever operation
you're going to do with this.
And then remember,
when a drag starts from our table view,
we'll be called on to provide
data to the pasteboard.
And this just uses the method
that writes to a pasteboard with
our writable pasteboard types.
And if the drag-out happens
to have a recipient that wants
prompt to redeem or promise,
[Transcript missing]
When the drag appears
over the table view,
we have to validate it,
which means decide whether to accept
it or refuse it and with what operation
and decide where the drag indicator
will show up in the table view.
In this case,
we are always putting the drag
indicator at the end of the table view.
here, and we accept if the pasteboard
contains some of the types
that we're willing to read,
I'll let the operation
that's going to be a copy.
There's a little bit of a
subtle point if we're dragging
within the single table view.
I'll let you take a look at
that in the source yourself.
And then the last part is very simple.
If the drag is actually
dropped on our table view,
we'll be called on to accept it.
And for that, we just read in from the
pasteboard using our read
selection from pasteboard method.
So let's try it out.
So, let me make some selections
of various items in here,
and then we'll try dragging them over.
And you'll notice the
drag indicator appears,
and I can drop it.
And there they are.
Or perhaps I want to take
and drag them to the desktop.
There's a file written out.
Or I can take and say,
drag these out to text.
And there's our table.
Plain text.
There are our tab-separated items.
So we have drag and drop working.
What about services?
Well, let's see.
One of the services that is available is,
say, TextEdit,
new window containing selection.
Boom, brings up a new window in
TextEdit containing that data.
But there are some more
interesting services.
Say, let's try Mail.
Mail provides a service, send file,
and up comes Mail with a new message
with a file created from that data.
And then we also have the services
provided by our iSpin application.
So let me make a selection in TextEdit.
[Transcript missing]
So we have our drag and drop,
copy and paste, and service is working.
Let's go back to the slides.
And now I would like to
welcome up the next speaker,
Hansen, who is going to tell us all about
improving the user interface.
Good afternoon, my name is Hansen,
and I'm an engineer in the Cocoa Group.
And today I'd like to show you how you
can add some cool new user interface
improvements in your applications.
So, Doug has already shown us how
to do pasteboard handling.
So I'm going to show you how to add
an NSDatePicker to your application,
implement undo support,
and take advantage of view
animations to create simple visual
transitions between your views.
So let's get started.
First thing, an estate picker.
DatePicker is a new control in Tiger that
allows you to display an NSDate instance.
There are two styles of DatePicker.
There is a textual style that
contains a text field and a stepper.
And this style, as many of you may know,
is similar to the
Carbon DatePicker control.
There is also a second style,
a graphical style,
that provides a calendar and a clock.
Now, no matter which one of
these two styles you use,
you can specify which date or
time elements should be visible.
So, for instance,
if you don't want to display the time,
you can not show the clock.
So now let's see this in action,
and I'm going to do a demo.
So, first thing I'm going to do is open
up another version of our application.
Those of you who might be
following along the sample code,
you can open the ispend03 Xcode project.
And now, Daypicker,
we're going to be doing the
Daypicker thing completely
in Interface Builder today.
So, I'm going to open up
my document.nib file.
And we brought up the nib.
And the date field that we're
going to replace is in our
bank transaction detail view.
So you can see here that's the...
The view that we want to bring up.
And you notice that we have this
field 'Date' and a text field here.
Now let's look at the text field.
Let's inspect it.
Let's bring up the inspector
and let's choose bindings.
And as you can see,
this text field is bound
to selection.date of the
transactions controller,
which means it's showing whatever
the date of the currently
selected item in the window is.
So now, we want to replace this text
field with our new NSDatePicker.
So the first thing we're going to do is
we're going to delete this text field.
And let's go to our pallets up
here and go to the text section.
And you notice this item here,
this is the NSDate Picker object.
So we're gonna drag that into
our Bank Transaction view.
So next,
we're gonna go back to the Inspector.
And let's change some of the settings.
We want to display the month, day,
and year.
But we don't want to display the time.
Great, so now let's make it
a little bit smaller.
So now we want to bind this date
picker to the same value that we
bound the previous text field to.
So I'm going to go back to the inspector
and go to Bindings and click on Value.
And we've already got Transactions
Controller selected here and
the controller key selection.
That's exactly what we want.
Now for the model key path,
we want the date.
So we're going to click this
pull-down and select date.
And now we've connected our bindings.
So that's all we need to do to
set up our Textual Date Picker.
So next, I'd also like to add a graphical
version of the Date Picker.
However, the graphical version
is a little bit bigger,
so I'm going to create
another window for it.
So let's go to our palette here.
Actually, let me hide Xcode so that
it's a little cleaner.
And let's drag in a panel.
Let's make this panel a utility window.
Make it a little bit smaller.
Let's give it a different name.
Now as before, we're going to go and drag
in a DatePicker object.
So we're going to drag this into here.
So now we go back to the
inspector and change its style.
We can select the style from the
pop-up and change it to graphical.
And now as you can see,
there is a calendar and a clock.
We don't want to display the clock,
so let's select time selection none,
and center the calendar.
There.
So now, as before,
we have to bind it to the correct thing.
So let's go to Bindings, select Value,
and from the pull-down
from Model Keypath,
select Date.
Great, so now we have a window that shows
a graphical version of the date,
but now we need a way to
bring up this utility panel.
So luckily,
here I already have a nice little
button with a calendar icon,
so I am going to connect this button
by control-clicking and
dragging up to my date panel.
And now that brings up a target action.
I will select 'Order Front'
and click 'Connect'. And now...
When I click this button,
this panel should pop up.
So now let's go back to
Xcode and build and run this.
Let's add a couple of items.
Now you see that we have a date
picker object here and I can click
the stepper and you see all the
selected items increment their month.
You can increment the year or the
date and I can click the button and
change the date using the calendar.
And it all just works.
I didn't have to write
a single line of code.
Could you take the slides, please?
So now that you've seen how easy
it is to create a date picker,
I'm going to go on to our next topic,
Undo Support.
So, Undo support is provided
by NSUndo Manager.
NSUndo Manager records operations
for undo and redo on a stack.
Now, in order to use the Undo Manager,
whenever we have a change made to
our model objects in our application,
say the transactions in
our iSpend application,
we want to tell the Undo
Manager a method to register.
We want to register with the
Undo Manager a way to revert the
change back to its previous value.
Document-based applications,
such as our IceBand application,
supply an undo manager by default.
This default undo manager also
maintains and keeps track of
the edited state of the document
so that the little dirty mark,
The dirty mark is marked when there
are still undo operations on the stack.
Now, of course,
many of you know about Core Data.
Core Data is new in Tiger.
If you use Core Data to provide
the model for your applications,
you'll get undo support for free.
However, today,
the undo support I'm going to show
you will work back on Panther and
previous versions of Mac OS X.
So next, I'm going to tell you the
two ways that you can use to
register your methods for undo.
The first way to register a method for
undo is to use register_undo_with_target.
This is a very simple way of registration
which is only used when your method
takes a single object-typed argument.
Now, often,
you may have... your methods may
require more than one argument,
or maybe the argument is not an object,
maybe it's an integer or a float.
So in those cases,
we provide a more general method called
invocation-based undo registration.
The method there is a method
on NSUndue Manager called
prepareWithInvocationTarget.
And to use that,
you specify the actual invocation
to revert the object state.
Now this is possible because
of the dynamic nature of
the Objective-C runtime.
So, next,
what do we need to do to add Undo
Support to our iSpend application?
Well,
First, when the user adds or removes
a transaction in a document,
we want to be able to undo that action.
So to do that,
we're going to take advantage of key
value observing to observe changes
made to the transaction's array.
Next, if the user changes a
value in the transaction,
such as editing the date or the amount,
we want to be able to undo that.
So to do that, first,
each transaction model object needs a
reference to the document's undo manager.
Once we set that up, then,
In each of the places where we
change the transaction's value,
Meaning, in each of the setter accessor
methods for the transaction,
we will register the undo instruction.
So next, I'd like to go to the demo
and show you this in action.
So first, let's go to mydocument.m.
And the document,
this NSDocument subclass,
First, I'll go to the top.
So our document subclass is already
registered as an observer for
changes to the transactions array.
It does this because it needs to
keep track of the current balance,
for instance.
So that observation is set
up here in the init method.
So next,
since we're already registered for
notifications to the transactions array,
when...
When we receive a notification that the
user has added or removed an object,
a transactions object, we, this method,
observe value for key path of object,
change context will be invoked.
This method takes a changed dictionary.
This changed dictionary contains
All the objects that have been removed
and all the objects that have been added.
So all the objects that are removed,
we will save in an array
called old transactions and the
objects that have been added,
we will save in new transactions.
So now, well,
what happens when the user removes
one or more transaction objects?
Now we'll go into this code and
we need to tell our undo manager
how to add back in the objects
that the user just removed.
So to do that,
We tell the UndoManager
to prepare an invocation,
and the method that we're going to give
it is 'Insert objects in transactions
at indexes'. This method I'm going
to implement for you in a moment.
Now similarly,
if the user decides to add a transaction,
will go down to here,
and we need to tell the undo
manager a way to remove the
transaction that the user just added.
So we're going to, this time,
RegisterUndoWithTarget and we're
going to give it the method
removeObjectsFromTransactionsAddIndexes.
Now notice this time I can use
the simple undo registration
method because this method
removeObjectsFromTransactionsAddIndexes
takes a single argument
which is a type of object.
The user has added a
bunch of new transactions,
and we want each new transaction
model object to contain a reference
to the document so that it can
access the document's undo manager.
So we're going to tell each new
transaction to perform the 'select
or set document' on itself.
So now, I'm going to go down to the end
of this method and I'm going to
implement those two methods that
I referenced above to revert the changes.
Insert objects and remove objects.
And as you can see here,
they're basically just
array insertion and removal,
but we're going to do a special thing.
We're going to use mutable
array value for key.
This uses a mutable array proxy so
that key value observing and key
value coding compliance is maintained.
Why do we need to do this?
Well, we need to do this so that our
transactions controller will be
notified of the change that we make.
So that's all we need to do to be able
to undo adding or removing a transaction.
So next I need to...
[Transcript missing]
wants to undo a change
made to the transactions,
the transaction model object
that is logically located
in the transaction model.
So we're going to go to the
transactions.m implementation file.
The first thing I'd like to
show you is we've already
pre-populated this with the code.
We need to implement the setDocument
and undoManager accessors.
So this gives us a way to tell the
transaction object what the R document
is and get it its undo manager.
Once we've done that, we can...
[Transcript missing]
change to its previous value.
So we're going to prepare an
invocation and we're going to
give it the previous value.
and All the other setter
methods follow the same pattern.
So in the interest of time,
I'm not going to go over that today.
You can check that out
in your sample code.
So that's all we need to do there.
And I'd like to now run the program
and show you how this works.
So I'm going to add a bunch of objects
and I can change the descriptions.
And I can delete a bunch of objects.
And now notice I can undo the delete.
I can start undoing the changes
I made to the descriptions,
and I can undo the ads,
but I can also redo them.
Now we get undo and redo support for
free because NSUndoManager keeps track of
both undos and redos on the same stack.
There, so that's all you need
to do to implement Undo.
So next, let's go back to the slides.
So next,
I'd like to talk about View Animations.
So View Animations are
another new feature in Tiger.
There are two new classes
that we added to Tiger:
NSAnimation and NSViewAnimation.
NSAnimation manages the timing
and progress of animations.
Its subclass, NSViewAnimation,
provides a very simple and easy way to
add transitions between views or windows.
Some of those transactions include:
you can fade in or fade
out a viewer window,
or you can animate a change in the
size or location of a viewer window.
NSV animation can manage several
animations simultaneously.
So this is useful, for instance,
if you want to fade in one view
while you fade out another view.
Now, for each of the animations
that you want to animate,
you will specify that using a dictionary.
The most important thing in
the dictionary is a target key.
The target key is the view or the
window that you want to animate.
You can also provide
several optional keys.
The effect key, you can provide fade-in
or fade-out effect.
And you can also provide the start
and end frame of your animation.
Now, if you do not provide the start
or the end frame of the animation,
by default,
the NSFv animation class will use the
current frame of your target view.
So, for more examples of View Animations
and NS Animations in general,
I invite you to attend session 146,
Cocoa Advanced View Techniques,
Friday at 3:30 p.m.
So now,
what steps do we need to do to add
NS animations to our Iceman application?
Well,
What we want to do is,
in the detail view,
when we click the disclosure triangle and
bring up the detail view or change from
one detail view to another detail view,
we want a cool fade-in
and fade-out effect.
So, we're going to do three
animations simultaneously.
The first animation we're going to do is,
we're going to fade out the
old view and reposition it.
Secondly,
the two views might be different sizes,
so the document window
might have to resize itself.
So,
we're going to animate the window resize.
Third, we're going to fade in
and expand the new view.
And now, once we've created all three
of our animation dictionaries,
we're going to concatenate
them into a single list.
Then we can run the animation.
Once the animation is done running,
then we can clean up any
temporary state that we set up.
So now let's go to the demo,
and I'll show you this in action.
So, let's go to the
expandableviewcontroller.m file.
And this file contains the logic
for controlling our detail view,
expanding and hiding our detail view.
So all that logic is contained
in the updateView method here.
So the first thing that I need to
do is there could be a previous
animation already running.
So if that is the case,
let's go down here,
and I'm going to add some code.
just handled that case.
Now,
if previous animation is already running,
I will set its progress to one
to display its final frame,
and then I'm going to stop the animation.
So now let's start and create
our three animation dictionaries.
The first one I'm going to do is
Here,
we are abruptly hiding the old view.
So now I want this view to fade out.
So I'm going to replace
it with an entry in our,
a div.
and Before I do that,
I need to calculate the
old view's final frame.
This code calculates that.
Then I'm going to create its dictionary.
The target key will be the current view.
The effect key will be FadeOutEffect.
And the end frame is the frame
we just calculated above.
Lastly, I will add the dictionary to
our array of view animations.
Now we're done with the first dictionary.
The next one is our
window resize dictionary.
So here we're resizing the window.
We want the window resize
to take place simultaneously
as our other tree animation,
so we're going to replace this
with another entry in our list.
So, first thing we need to do is we're
going to nudge the Windows frame
to a non-integral value.
Now,
this is actually sort of a workaround
for a bug in NSView animation.
The reason is,
If the end frame of the animation
is the same as the frame's current,
is the same as the Windows frame,
then it won't actually animate anything.
So we're going to do a little tweak here.
So then we're going to
create the dictionary.
The target key will be
the document window.
and the end frame will be
the frame we nudged up here.
And then we're going to append
the dictionary to our list.
So, lastly,
We need to create a dictionary
for our final animation,
which is the fade-in of the new
view that we're going to show.
So here we're going to replace this code
where it abruptly unhides the new view,
and as before, we're going to create the
new view's start frame,
calculate the new view's start frame.
So this code is actually
pretty complicated.
I don't have time to get into it here,
but you all have this sample code.
You can take a look at this yourself.
And as before, we're going to,
once we've set up our frame,
we're going to create its dictionary.
Its target key will be the new view.
And the effect will be Fade In.
And then we're going to give
it the start frame and the
end frame we calculated above.
And last, we're going to add it to
our list of view animations.
So now that we have a
list of three animations,
we can create the animation and run it.
So I'm going to go down here and
we're going to instantiate an
instance of NSV animation using
our array that we created above.
Then I'm going to set ourself as
the delegate so that we get called
when the animation stops or ends.
And then I'm going to start
running the animation.
So now notice before,
we used to have this
auto-resizing code here.
Now, this no longer makes sense to be
here because at this point the
animation could still be running.
So we're going to move
it down to a later point.
So now, since we're the delegate
of the animation,
when the animation stops,
we're going to get called.
So we're going to take this
opportunity to do some cleanup.
So in the animationDidStop,
we're going to invoke animationDidEnd and
we're going to implement animationDidEnd.
And we can clean up all the
temporary state we've set up,
including the origins.
We've changed the origins
around during the animation.
We need to tell the table
view to redisplay itself,
et cetera, et cetera.
And then we release the
animation and set it to nil.
And now at this point,
we can go back and restore
the resizing behavior of the
other views in the window.
So now, that's it, we're done.
So now, well, what does this look like?
Let's run it.
And... let's add a bunch of items.
Resize this a little bit.
Now notice if I click
the disclosure triangle,
you see there, we have a nice sort of
shrinking and expanding effect.
If I click between the
bank and the stock view,
the bank view will fade out and
the stock view will fade in.
And we also continue to do
this sort of expanding and
[Transcript missing]
So that concludes my
portion of the talk today.
Go back to the slides.
Next, I'd like to introduce Corbin Dunn,
who will teach you all how to use
Spotlight and implement searching
technology in your applications.
Thanks, Hansen.
So, my name is Corbin Dunn.
I work for the Application Kit in
Cocoa at Apple.
And today, I'm going to show you how to
add three cool new features
to our Tiger application here.
First, I'm going to show you how to add
a cool search field to the toolbar
on our little applications window.
That way we can filter on
and find exactly what we want
inside of that document file.
Second, well, think about searching.
You're trying to find this one
little file on your huge hard drive.
It can be kind of hard to do.
So, in Tiger, we add this cool new
feature called Spotlight,
allowing you to easily find things.
So,
we need to tell the Spotlight database
about our custom iSpin file format.
So, to do that,
we're going to go ahead and write
a Spotlight metadata plugin.
The third and final thing I'm going
to show you how to do is to further
take advantage of Spotlight by
adding a Spotlight search window
directly inside of our application.
So, let's jump right into it.
A toolbar search field.
What does that mean?
As you see in this
little screenshot here,
we're adding this custom,
an NS custom view to the
top right of the toolbar.
And it's pretty easy to do.
So, adding a search field.
Oops, let me go back.
Okay.
First, how do we do it?
Inside the my document nib file,
we will add an NS custom view to the nib.
On-site of that,
we will add an NSSearch field
inside of the custom view.
Then we're going to need
to access it in code,
so we will add an outlet that
connects the NSSearch field
up to the My Document header
file and access it in code.
Finally, new in Tiger,
we can add some bindings and we can
bind the NSSearch field and have it
automatically filter the array controller
to see exactly what we want to see.
What are the bindings?
Well, the bindings that we'll be
looking for is the predicate,
which is done with an NSSearch predicate.
It looks like this thing you see here,
this description string contains with
a little bracket 'c' dollar sign value.
I'll go into further exactly
what that is in a little bit,
but that predicate is going
to be our description,
which we want to search on.
Once you have one predicate bound,
you can bind to another one.
So the second predicate that we're
going to bind to is going to be this
type contains dollar sign value,
and that's going to be for the category.
So I'm going to present a little
bit more information on NSPredicate
a little bit later in the session,
so you'll have to bear
with me for just a second.
Finally, to add the actual custom view,
we'll access that outlet and inside
a code we'll create the toolbar
item and it'll all fall together.
So let's go to a demo on
how to exactly do this.
What I have here is the iSpin04 project.
And inside of it,
I'm going to go ahead and double-click
on the mydocument.niv file and
open it up in Airface Builder.
So,
we need to add an NS custom view here.
I'm going to go over and drag a custom
view on over to the my document nib file.
And let's just rename
this to 'Search View'.
Alright,
so we have that search view there.
Now if we go over to the text section,
I'm going to go ahead and grab
an NSSearch field over here,
drop it on down to the search view.
We'll make it a little larger.
Alright,
and we want to access it in code,
so we want to have an outlet for it.
So I'm going to go over
to the files owner,
is the 'My Document'. I'm
going to go to the classes.
Go to the Outlets
section in the Inspector,
add a new outlet, and this is going to be
the Search Field outlet.
And what is the type?
Well, it's an NSSearchField,
so we're going to fill that in.
All right,
and I'm going to go over to code,
and we have to add the same type
of thing inside the header file.
So inside of mydocument.h,
so here's the mydocument header.
So inside of here, I'll just paste in the
NSSearchField outlet.
All right,
now back over to Interface Builder.
So now we need to actually hook that
up so I can control drag from the
files owner on over to the search field
and this is the typical outlet hookup
stuff that you're probably used to.
Now we need to do some bindings.
So we can click on that NSSearch field,
go over to the binding section, and now,
new in Tiger,
we have this predicate binding here,
and if I click bind,
The key path is the key path in our
model that we want to filter on.
We want a display name of 'Description'.
I can cheat and drop down the model key
path section and see what's in my model.
One of the items is 'Description' string.
That was the name of my model.
I'm going to replace the word 'key
path' with 'Description' string.
After contains,
I'm going to add a little bracket
'c' so it's case insensitive.
So once we have one predicate bound,
we can bind another predicate.
So let's go ahead and bind
another one here in a similar way.
This one, we're gonna call it
'category'. And again,
the model keypath,
I'm not sure what the keypath was,
so I can kind of drop it down
and try and figure it out.
I guess category is type.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
make this type contains,
it's really tiny, I'm sorry, c value.
Alright,
so that hooks up the predicate bindings.
So now we can go back over to
Xcode and actually create the item.
So, inside of Xcode we have a category
that does all the toolbar work.
In here, the first thing that you see,
there's this line here,
which is an identifier,
search toolbar item identifier.
We're gonna use that to identify
our search toolbar item.
We have a couple
delegate methods in here.
Here's the first important one.
The toolbar, item for identifier,
will be inserted in the toolbar.
And what you see here is you
can see that it already has the,
or first thing it does is
it creates a toolbar item.
and it's creating the
specifics for the add button.
It creates the specifics
for the delete button,
for the save button.
And so we want to add a
section for a new search field.
So inside of here,
I'm gonna see if that item identifier
is the search toolbar item identifier.
And if it is, oops,
And if it is,
we're going to add some code here.
So first I'm going to set
up the standard properties.
So I'm going to set the
label to be our search,
set the palette label
and set the tool tip.
But the thing that really does the work
is using the toolbar item set view.
I'm setting it to that
search field outlet.
So it's going to take that NS custom view
and drop it directly into our toolbar.
Finally,
the last thing I'm going to do is
[Transcript missing]
I should be able to open up
something with a bunch of files.
And now we have a cool
little search field.
So as you see,
description category there,
and let's search for a deposit.
So it filters on deposit.
We can drop it down to category,
and let's say I want to see meals.
I must have typed something in wrong,
as it's not quite working.
Well, normally it would work.
Oh, well anyways,
so it would normally work,
but I have a typo.
Alright,
so let's go back over to some slides.
Second thing I'm going to show is how
to create a Spotlight metadata plugin.
Hopefully you went to yesterday's
talk where we went over the
details of exactly how to do this,
so I'm going to quickly cover it.
But what this does,
it allows the Spotlight database to
know about our custom file formats.
How does it do it?
It does it via UTI,
a universal type identifier.
And in this case,
it's com.apple.ispin.document that
identifies our iSpin documents.
With that, we can write an importer,
or sorry, a Spotlight metadata plugin,
which will fill in custom attributes.
mditem.h has some custom
attributes defined for us,
and we can fill in the KMDItem
text content for the particular
text content of our file.
We can also define custom attributes.
For our iSpin files,
we can fill in the total balance.
So we'll define one called
com_apple_iSpinBalance,
which will contain the
total balance for that file.
So the Icebin metadata plugin.
What's done is inside of Xcode,
I just use the wizard to create a
new metadata importer plugin project.
Then I added some proper entries
into schema.xml and Info.plist.
I'll quickly go over exactly what I did.
Then the most important part is
to fill in getMetadataForFile.
There's a function called
getMetadataForFile.
Inside of it,
we have a CFMutableDictionaryRef
with called attributes,
where we fill in the attributes
that we want for that file.
Now, what will we do?
Well, we're going to go ahead and
load path to file into an
NSData object and deserialize it.
Our custom file format
is really just a plist.
So here we're going to use property
list from data to deserialize it.
We can then walk through each
of the transaction items,
concatenate all the strings together to
generate one total description string,
and we can concatenate all the balances
together to find a total balance
and then set the custom attributes.
So then once that's done,
we'll compile it and install it.
Just compile the project
like usual in Xcode.
To install it, you drop it into Tilda
Library Spotlight or Library Spotlight,
depending on exactly where you
want and how you want it to work.
So let's give a quick demo of that.
So, I'm going to go ahead and open
up the Spotlight plug-in project.
And inside of here,
we have the schema.xml file.
The key thing to notice,
we're defining some custom attributes.
So inside of the attributes section,
there's that one I mentioned,
com apple ispin balance,
which is a CFNumber.
There's also a few others added here.
Then for the types, we have our UTI,
the COM Apple iSpin document.
This is telling the Spotlight database
that these are the types of documents
that our importer actually imports.
We tell it the attributes
that we actually handle.
So inside of here, we see that balance
attribute that we defined,
and we're going to use
one of the standard ones,
KMDItemTextContent.
Next, we'll notice that we have the
transaction inside of our project
so we can access our model.
Then inside of 'Get Metadata for File',
there's that standard 'Get Metadata for
File'. Now it has a bunch of code here.
Again, as I said,
it iterates through everything.
If you have any questions,
feel free to come to the lab afterwards.
I'm going to just highlight
this key portion here.
We take that CF mutable
dictionary ref and we just,
via tool-free bridging,
typecast it to an NS mutable dictionary.
Use the typical set object for
key in this dictionary pattern
to fill in the total balance
for that key that we defined,
com apple ispin balance.
In addition,
I computed the total descriptions
in this one string and I used
the typical set object for key
of the KMDItem text content.
And that way the importer will
import all those values for us.
So let's go back on over to some slides.
Spotlight search window.
This is the third and final
thing I'm going to go over.
As you see in that screenshot,
I'm going to show how to add
a cool little search window
directly inside of our application.
Now, we could search for all the files
in the system for whatever we
wanted or just in our application.
We're going to do it just inside
of our application by limiting
it to just that particular UTI.
So what I already did here is I have
the view search window menu item
hooked up to display this window.
And that window is just a new
nib file with a window in it.
And it has a, inside of the search panel,
it has a table view with a couple of
columns and in a search field on the top.
In addition, we need to control it.
So I created this file,
search_controller.h and
search_controller.m that we're going to
use to actually access it and code to it.
So editing search_controller.h,
what's inside of here?
The key thing is NSMetadataQuery.
It is the Cocoa entry
port into our searches.
So inside of our search controller file,
inside of the header,
we'll have an instance of it,
an instance variable called _Query.
We'll also have a search key.
Now the reasons we have these is we
want to expose them for bindings.
The search key we'll use to
bind it to the search field,
and whenever that search field changes,
it'll change the search key.
The query will be exposed so we
can actually bind to the results.
So exposing it for bindings.
So you see the query,
that's going to be how we expose it.
And what can we bind to?
Up here is a little snippet of
the header for NSMetadataQuery.
In it, it has this NSArrayResults,
which are the results from the search.
The results is an array
of NSMetadataItems.
Now they are bindable,
so we can directly bind to any of the
attributes that we want to bind to.
So we can find the name of the item,
the name of the file system name,
and that's what we'll go
ahead and directly do.
So in addition, we want to expose the
search key for bindings.
That's done pretty standard.
We'll have the search key accessor
and a set search key writer.
Inside set search key,
it's going to call this custom function
'createSearchPredicate'. Now that
gets back into what is NSPredicate?
Well, NSPredicate, on its simplest sense,
it's used to define logical conditions
for filtering and searching.
So what does that mean?
For example,
a description like 'Tom', that would
return something where it matches
'Tom' or 'Thomas' or 'Tomato'.
You could use equals to filter on
just equal to that and not like it.
In addition,
there's a descendant class of
NSPredicate called NSCompoundPredicate.
That allows you to combine
two predicates into a new one.
So you could have description like
'Tom', description like 'Fred',
combine them together with 'or',
and you have a new predicate,
which is the 'or'
combination of both of those.
So I highly recommend reading the
documentation for in this predicate
because I'm just lightly covering it.
So creating the search predicate goes
back to that custom method called
'CreateSearchPredicate'. Inside of it,
I'm going to lightly go over this,
and then I'm going to go over it again
in code to further emphasize the points.
So inside of here, the first line,
it's creating a predicate
where the KMDItemTextContent is
like the search key passed in.
So that's going to filter on exactly
what was given to us as a search key.
The second line is
creating another predicate,
and that one,
it's KMDItemContentType is equal to RUTI.
So that's going to filter
on exactly RUTI file types.
So I use NSCompoundPredicate
and predicate,
or and predicate with
sub-predicate to take those two,
and them together to a one,
and that way I limit it to RUTI for
exactly what we want to find.
Then I call querySetPredicate and
queryStartQuery to get it all rolling.
How does it actually work?
Well,
bindings is how it actually all works.
We'll drop an NSArrayController down,
set the content array to
bind to query.results,
which we exposed.
The table column one,
we're going to just bind the value to the
KMDItemFS name in the arranged objects.
So that's inside the arranged
objects of query.results.
Another one from Balance is
going to be bound to our custom
attribute that we defined:
com.apple.ispin.balance.
So let's give a demo on
how to exactly do this.
So this is back to the iSpin04 project.
So inside of the
search_controller.h file,
you can see that here's that
instance of NSMetadataQuery and
also the search key NSString.
So let's go over to the .m file,
search-controller.m.
So in the init,
we're going to do the typical
NS Metadata Query alloc init
pattern that you see everywhere.
Then we're going to
create a sort descriptor.
This sort descriptor is going to be
inited with a key of KMDItemFS name.
So this will allow the query
results to automatically be filtered
on the file system name for us.
So we create an array with that object
and call QuerySetSortDescriptors.
You could have other sorts of
descriptors to sub-sort if you wanted.
Next, we need to expose some
things for bindings.
So the query is going to be exposed.
Pretty simple.
Then the search key is
going to be exposed.
The key portion in setSearchKey,
so when the search key changes,
I'm going to call this
createSearchPredicate method.
So createSearchPredicate.
What are we doing here?
Again,
we want the KMDItem text content to
be like that string passed to us.
So I use NSPredicate,
predicateWithFormat,
given that predicate format,
and the search key that we
had already given to us.
Next,
we want to limit it to just our files.
So inside of here,
I'm looking for when the
CamDatom content type is our UTI,
the com.apply.spin document.
Finally, we have to take those two,
use NSCompoundPredicate and predicate
with sub-predicates to combine
them together to create a new one,
and then do something with it.
So we'll go query, set predicate,
and query,
start query to get all rolling.
Then the real magic happens
inside of the bindings.
So I'm going to open up search-pound.nib.
Let me close some other stuff here.
Alright, so inside the search panel,
we want an array controller,
so we're going to go
over to the controllers,
drag an array controller down
over to the search panel.
We're going to go over to the bindings.
And the content array, well,
what did we expose?
First of all,
we exposed it in the search controller,
so I'm going to select it.
And the model keypath
was 'query.results'.
Hopefully I'll type it right.
And next, we need to double-click on
the table column's file name.
We want to bind the value to that new
array control that we just specified,
the arranged objects,
and the model keypath,
that's the KMDItemFS name,
so it's the file system name attribute.
The balance?
Same type of thing,
except the model keypath
is going to be com,
apple, iso, then balance.
So it's that custom
attribute that we defined.
The last thing to bind
is the NSSearch field.
So the value,
I'm going to bind it to the files owner,
the search controller.
And let's see, it was called what?
Search key?
Alright, so that should be
enough for the bindings.
So now if I go back over to Xcode,
compile this guy, run it.
So now we have... let's hide some stuff.
View, search window,
brings up that search window,
and we could search for deposit.
and look,
it found that file directly inside of it.
So that's an example of how to create,
use searching directly
inside of your application.
Let's go back on over to the slides.
The makeover is complete!
We went over how to add
pasteboard handling,
user interface improvements,
and some cool searching enhancements.
For more information,
come to tonight's lab,
the Cocoa Tiger Makeover Lab in the
Application Technologies Lab tonight
at 6:30.
Drop by it, we can answer any
questions that you have.
For more information, documentation,
sample code, other resources,
developer.apple.com/wwwdc2005
Or you can contact these people:
Matthew Formica,
our Cocoa Core Data Evangelist,
Cocoa Development,
we have that mailing list,
Apple Bug Tracking System,
used for reporting bugs.